Agra is a city on the banks of the Yamuna river in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.
It is kilometres south of the national capital New Delhi.
Agra is the fourth-most populous city in Uttar Pradesh and 24th in India.
Agra is a major tourist destination because of its many Mughal-era buildings, most notably the Taj Mahal.
Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri, all of which are UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
Agra is included on the Golden Triangle tourist circuit, along with Delhi and Jaipur and the Uttar Pradesh Heritage Arc.
A tourist circuit of Uttar Pradesh, along with Lucknow and Varanasi.
Agra is in the Braj cultural region.
The history of Agra before the Delhi Sultanate is unclear.
A 17th century chronicle called it an old settlement which was merely a village, owing to its destruction by Mahmud of Ghazni.
The 11th-century Persian poet Mas'ūd Sa'd Salmān writes of an assault on the fortress of Agra.
Then held by King Jaypal, by Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni. Despite his surrender, Mahmud sacked the place.
It was mentioned for the first time in 1080 AD when a Ghaznavide force captured it.
Sultan Sikandar Lodī was the first to move his capital from Delhi to Agra in 1504.
Its administration having previously been under Bayana.
He governed the country from here and Agra assumed the importance of the second capital.
He died in 1517 and his son, Ibrāhīm Lodī, remained in power there for nine more years.
Several palaces, wells, and a mosque were built by him in the fort during his period.
He was finally defeated at the Battle of Panipat in 1526.
Between 1540 and 1556, Afghans, beginning with Sher Shah Suri, ruled the area.
It was the capital of the Mughal Empire from 1556 to 1648.
The city was later taken by the Marathas and later still fell to the British Raj.
Agra features a semiarid climate that borders on a humid subtropical climate.
The city features mild winters, hot and dry summers and a monsoon season.
However, the monsoons, though substantial in Agra, are not quite as heavy as the monsoon in other parts of India.
This is a primary factor in Agra featuring a semiarid climate as opposed to a humid subtropical climate.
Agra city has a population of 1,585,704, while the population of Agra cantonment is 53,053.
The urban agglomeration of Agra has a population of 1,760,285.
Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%.
Agra city has an average literacy rate of 73%, below the national average of 74%.
Literacy rate of males is considerably higher than that of women.
The sex ratio in the city was 875 females per thousand males while child sex ratio stood at 857.
Agra district literacy rate is 62.56%.
The golden age of the city began with the Mughals.
It was known then as Akbarabād and remained the capital of the Mughal Empire under the Badshahs Akbar, Jahāngīr and Shāh Jahān.
Akbar made it the eponymous seat of one of his original twelve subahs, bordering Delhi, Awadh , Allahabad, Malwa and Ajmer subahs. 
Shāh Jahān later shifted his capital to Shāhjahānabād.
Since Akbarabād was one of the most important cities in India under the Mughals.
It witnessed a lot of building activity.
Babar, the founder of the Mughal dynasty,laid out the first formal Persian garden on the banks of the river Yamuna.
The garden is called the Arām Bāgh or the Garden of Relaxation.
His grandson Akbar the Great raised the towering ramparts of the Great Red Fort.
Besides making Agra a centre for learning, arts, commerce, and religion. 
Akbar also built a new city on the outskirts of Akbarabād called Fatehpur Sikri. 
This city was built in the form of a Mughal military camp in stone.
His son Jahāngīr had a love of flora and fauna and laid many gardens inside the Red Fort or Lāl Qil'a.
Shāh Jahān, known for his keen interest in architecture, gave Akbarabād its most prized monument, the Taj Mahal.
Built in loving memory of his wife Mumtaz Mahal, the mausoleum was completed in 1653.
Shāh Jahān later shifted the capital to Delhi during his reign, but his son Aurangzeb moved the capital back to Akbarabād.
The Jat kingdom of Bharatpur waged many wars against the Mughal Delhi and in the 17th and 18th century carried out numerous campaigns in Mughal territories including Agra.
After the decline of the Mughal Empire, the city came under the influence of Marathas and was called Agra.
Before falling into the hands of the British Raj in 1803.
In 1835 when the Presidency of Agra was established by the British.
The city became the seat of government, and just two years later it was witness to the Agra famine of 1837–38.
During the Indian rebellion of 1857 British rule across India was threatened.
News of the rebellion had reached Agra on 11 May and on 30 May two companies of native infantry.
The 44th and 67th regiments, rebelled and marched to Delhi.
The sun rises above the Amazon rainforest and the huge, evergreen trees allow rays of light to pass between their leaves and paint the forest floor in dappled shadows.
In one of the taller trees, little monkey Dora is waking up. 
Dora is a pretty little monkey with brown hair and a long tail. 
She wishes that she could sleep some more, but there is no time to lose. 
Today is the day of the big party.
Monkeys will come from far and wide to attend the party.
Even from neighbouring countries such as Peru and Bolivia.
The big party, held in the Brazilian part of the Amazon Rainforest, is always a very big success.
There is music and dancing, and often a monkey will find a mate and fall in love.
Dora is very excited because this year she has been asked to help the older monkeys of the community with the organizing of the party.
This is a very great responsibility and there is no time to lose.
Dora arrives at the meeting early and is very pleased to see her friend Tinga. 
Tinga is an indigenous name meaning ‘of white colour’. 
This is the perfect name for Dora’s friend as he has white hair and green eyes.
Tinga is a very rare and shy monkey, but  when he sees Dora his eyes light up with joy.
The other monkeys often laugh at Tinga’s strange white hair and green eyes.
But Dora does not like such jokes.
She thinks that her friend is very handsome, even though her heart belongs to another monkey called Paco.
Paco is a big, strong monkey with thick, black hair who lives in the forest on the very edge of Bolivia.
Dora first met Paco at the big party the previous year.
They danced together only once but Dora knew then that her heart belonged to him.
She also remembers that Paco was arrogant, and that he did not pay her very much attention.
He had said that Dora was too young, and that she was always lost in her own fantasy world.
Despite all of this, Dora is looking forward to seeing Paco again, and such thoughts make her even more excited about the party.
Chief Ubirajara, a very big and very brave monkey.calls the meeting to order and begins to hand out tasks to the assembled monkeys.
Eventually it is Dora’s turn to be given her special task for the day.
But the little monkey is so lost in her own thoughts that she does not hear Chief Ubirajara’s instructions.
Have you been listening to a word I have said to you?
You are always lost in your fantasy world, even today when there is so much work to be done.
Dora is startled and stammers her reply.
Could you please repeat what it is you would like me to do today?
Chief Ubirajara is a little impatient with young Dora but he understands that she is still young and that she is also very excited about the party.
You must find for us the most beautiful and delicious cupuaçu and açai berries and the finest Brazil nuts for our feast tonight.
Chief Ubirajara claps his hands and smiles at the eager faces gathered in the forest clearing.  
Now that everyone knows what to do, let’s get to work!
And so the monkeys part company, each one determined to fulfil their task in preparation for the big party.
Dora very much likes the idea of being in charge of finding the food for the feast.
She loves to explore the forest, jumping from branch to branch between the tall trees.
She also loves to look at the beautiful plants and rich wildlife that fill her beloved forest.
I am the best person to chose for a job such as this.
After many hours of hard work, Dora’s bag is filled with a rich bounty of fruits and nuts.
She thinks how proud Chief Ubirajara will be when he sees what a good job she has done.
This thought makes the little monkey very happy as she hoists the bag onto her shoulders and heads for home.
When Dora is halfway home, her thoughts are interrupted by a strange sound in the forest.
She looks all about her but does not see anything unusual.
She tells herself to take extra care, but before long her thoughts drift again to the coming party and the dancing and celebrating that will be had by all.
She thinks about how she will tidy her hair, and what she will say when she sees Paco.
I wonder if he will still think that I am too young.
Even so, he will surely be impressed by the beautiful fruits and nuts I have gathered for the feast?
Dora’s thoughts are interrupted again when she notices a rich, juicy cupuaçu on the forest floor in front of her.
How lucky to find a beautiful fruit such as this,she thinks, and runs to pick up the cupuaçu and add it to her bag.
But as soon as Dora’s hand reaches out towards the fruit, a huge net pulls tight around her body and hoist the little monkey up into the air.