Long, long ago in the Dreamtime the earth was dark. 
There was no light. It was very cold and very black. 
Huge grey clouds kept the light and the warmth out and were so low that the animals had to crawl around. 
The Emu hobbled neck bent almost to the ground.
The Kangaroo couldn’t hop, and none of the birds could fly higher than several feet in the air. 
Only the Snakes were happy because they lived close to the ground.
The animals lived by crawling around the damp dark earth, feeling for fruits and berries. 
Often it was so hard to find food that several days would pass between meals. 
The Wombat became so tired of people bumping into him that he dug himself a burrow, and learned to sleep for long periods.
Eventually, the birds decided they’d had enough. 
They called a meeting of all the animals. 
The Magpies decided that they would raise the sky by gathering sticks and pushing the sky up. 
All the animals agreed it was a good idea, and they set about gathering sticks. 
The Magpies took a big stick each, and began to push at the sky.
The Emus, the Kangaroos and the Wombats watched as the Magpies pushed the sky slowly upwards. 
They used the sticks as levers, first resting the sky on low boulders, then on small hills. 
As the animals watched, the Magpies, pushing and straining, reached the top of a small mountain.
It was still very dark, but at least the Emu could straighten up, and the Kangaroo was able to move in long proud hops. 
The Magpies kept pushing the sky higher and higher, until they reached the highest mountain in the whole land. 
Then with a mighty heave, they gave the sky one last push! The sky shot up into the air, and as it rose it split open and a huge flood of warmth and light poured through on to the land below. 
The whole sky was filled with beautiful reds and yellows. 
It was the first sunrise.
Overjoyed with the beauty, the light and the warmth, the Magpies burst into song. 
As their loud warbling carried across the land, the Sun-Woman rose slowly, and began her journey towards the west. 
Now, each morning when the Sun-Woman wakes in the east she lights a fire to prepare the torch that she will carry across the sky each day. 
It is this fire that provides the first light of dawn. 
Then she takes up her torch, and begins her daily journey across the sky. 
When she reaches the western edge of the world, she extinguishes her flaming bark torch. 
Then she sits down, and repaints herself in brilliant reds and yellows, ready for her journey through a long underground passage back to her camp in the east. 
So that is why, to this day, every morning when the Sun-Woman wakes and lights her early morning fire, all the magpies greet her with their beautiful song.
Kolkata is my beloved city. 
It is a big city through which the river Ganga flows. 
It is the capital of West Bengal. 
This city has a long history of culture and heritage.Kolkata is a very old city. 
The people of Kolkata are mainly Bengalis. 
In Kolkata many freedom fighters and social reformers like Raja Rammohan Roy, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Baghajatin and many others were born and brought up. 
The British ruled over this city for many years. 
Kolkata is known as the 'city of joy'. 
People of different caste, creed and religion live in harmony here. 
There are many exciting places to visit here. 
The National Library, Indian Museum, Alipore Zoological Garden, Marble Palace and Victoria Memorial Hall are some of them. 
People from all over the country come to visit these places. 
The British constructed the memorable Howrah Bridge which is still the main thoroughfare to reach Howrah.In Kolkata many festivals like Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Holi, Id and Christmas are celebrated. 
Durga Puja is the main festival of this city. 
This is celebrated for four to five consecutive days, depending on the calendar of that year. 
The main food of the people is rice and fish. 
Many other delicious dishes are made here too. 
People of Kolkata are famous for eating different types of sweets. 
Among these rasogolla and sondesh are very common. 
There are temples of goddess Kali at Kalighat and Dakshineswar.

 
Churches and mosques are also found here. 
There is a lovely green golf course too.Despite the city being crowded I like my city very much because all my friends live here.
To start with it’s my home town. 
So one would understand the biasing or the emotions that would flow out as the piece goes on. 
The real heart of the city lies in its people. 
As well cities are more than just concrete. 
I have heard all my friends say Kolkata is so congested, there  are people everywhere. 
I have only one thing to say to them. 
If you want a clean city go to Delhi, if you want a city full of rich and famous people go to Mumbai, if you want a tech-savvy city go to Bangalore but if you want a city with a soul you can’t look beyond any other city other than Kolkata. 
The city will embrace you and leave you with a bit of Kolkata in your heart. 
The people here don’t care about their city being called Bengali. 
It’s completely opposite with respect to other cities. 
Tell a Mumbaite he or she lives in a Maharashtrian city he or she will be completely offended. 
Tell a Delhite he lives in a Punjabi city they will give you an earful. 
Contrary to this people of Kolkata will smile if you call their city Bengali. 
People there take special pride in being a bong (as Bengalis are lovingly called). 
And pride is something which they have in abundance. 
Pure emotions, getting provoked at smallest of things, god like following for a person they love are some of the traits of the bongs. 
Just ask a bong what Sourav Ganguly is to them or what ‘Rabindro Sangeet’ means to them and you will come to know what I am trying to say. 
Being a bong myself I know it’s pretty safe to say that most bongs are sports fanatics. 
They will try and follow each and every sport. 
And you know what, all of them will have an expert opinion. 
They will discuss about the game like they have mastered it. 
And when it comes to football, the fever is off the roof. 
Football capital of India- that’s an exact title to match my writing. 
Let there be a match in the salt lake stadium between any team there will be an assured crowd to watch the match. 
And next day you would be surely treating your eyes and ears to people standing in adda’s (small place where they gather) and talking football. 
 Bongs take particular pride in their language-Bengali. 
And why shouldn’t they? It has been recognised as being the sweetest language in the world by UNICEF. 
Fort William is a must visit tourist attraction place of Kolkata. 
Situated at the banks of river Hooghly, it was named after King William III of England. 
Fort William of Kolkata, India, was established during the tenure of British Raj in 1696. 
It was the guardroom of this two-storied building, where the black hole tragedy took place. 
During the Plassey war in 1757, Siraj Ud Daulah, the Nawab of Bengal attacked on the fort and defeated the Britishers. 
This paved way for the construction of a new fort by British. 
The new fort was initiated by Robert Clive, which got completed by 1780. 
The basic purpose of setting up Kolkata Fort William was to prevent attacks from Muslim invaders. 
The area that was cleared around the fort became maidan, where several exhibitions and fairs take place. 
The foundation of the old fort is still intact. 
Till date, it is a military area and the Arsenal inside it is worth watching, but for that prior permission of the commanding officer is required. 
Howrah Bridge, located over the Hoogli River in West Bengal, India, is said to be the busiest bridge of the world. 
It got its name owing to the fact that it connects the city of Howrah to Kolkata. 
Hawrah Bridge in Kolkata, India, also known by the name ‘Rabindra Setu’, was set up in 1874. 
It stands on two 270 feet high pillars. 
Kolkata Howrah Bridge is a cantilever truss bridge that was constructed without using any nuts and bolts. 
Though, earlier it had a tram route, but presently, it is serving mainly as a Road Bridge. 
Howrah bridge has got two sister bridges also, namely, Vidyasagar Setu and the Vivekananda Setu that are situated at different points over the hoogly river. 
This bridge acts as an important symbol of Kolkata. 
Kolkata Victoria memorial hall is a fabulous museum that was established in the year 1921. 


The credit for designing and drawing the plan for this monument goes to Sir William Emerson, President of the British Institute of Architects. 
Victoria Memorial of Kolkata, India is a fantastic place that will take you into the world of past history, where you can view the photos and effigies of prominent personalities, who made an incredible contribution in the glory of India. 
Today, Victoria memorial is one of the finest art museums in Kolkata. 
It is a 184 ft tall edifice that was constructed on 64 acres of land. 
The museum houses a group of mind-blowing figures above the north porch that epitomize prudence, learning and motherhood. 
Marble palace of Kolkata, India is a must visit tourist attraction spot. 
Built in the year 1835 by Rajendra Mallick, it is an exquisite art gallery. 
Marble palace houses the marvellous objects of art, sculptures, pictures & oil paintings. 
Its major highlight includes the Reuben’s masterpieces. 
You can also find the original paintings of Rembrandt, Reynolds and Van Goyen etc. 
Kolkata marble palace is the one of its kinds and consists of exquisite pieces of art. 
It also has a zoo, where you can find different kinds of birds and animals. 
In fact, it has a rare collection of birds. 
Birla planetarium of Kolkata, India is one of the largest museums in Asia. 
It came into existence in the year 1962 and the credit for establishing this wonderful centre of science, communication & environment goes to Birla Education Trust. 
It is situated at the Eastern metropolitan bypass of Kolkata. 
Birla planetarium provides a parlance where astronomical presentations take place. 
It provides useful piece of information about our solar system, galaxies, life span of stars, space, planets and other heavenly bodies in the most interactive manner via audio video aids. 
Usually the lectures are given in English, Hindi, and Bengali and occasionally in Oriya, Tamil & Gujarati. 
Kolkata Birla planetarium is a single storied circular edifice designed in the typical Indian style. 
It is a must see place for those interested in astronomy. 
Its astronomy gallery maintains a huge collection of fine paintings & celestial models of renowned astronomers. 
It enables you to explore science outdoors. 
Eden garden of Kolkata, India is one of the major tourist attraction places of the city of joy. 
The Eden garden is basically a cricket stadium, where people have witnessed the history of Indian cricket. 
It is the oldest cricket playground in the country and also the finest one. 
Kolkata Eden Gardens Cricket Club came into existence in the year 1864. 
The first ever first-class match that took place in the Eden Gardens was in 1917-18 and the first test match to be played here was in January 1934 against Douglas Jardine’s MCC. 
It was in February 1987, when the first ODI match was hosted here. 
It has undergone a tremendous modernization and infact, today it boasts of its large accommodation that can capacitate about 1,20,000 persons. 
Eden gardens of Kolkata definitely falls into the category of must see places. 
Saheed Minar, situated near Esplanade on the Kolkata Maidan, was initially known as Octerloney Monument. 
It was named after its founder, Sir David Ochterlony. 
This magnificent monument was established in the year 1848 so as to mark the founder’s victory in the Nepal War (1814-1816). 
The construction of Kolkata Saheed Minar follows an architectural variety. 
Its foundation is based on the Egyptian style, whereas the main Shahid Minar in Kolkata and its dome follow Syrian and Turkish designs respectively. 
It was in 1969 that the Octerloney Monument got the name ‘Sahid Minar’. 
It was renamed in the honour of those who sacrificed their lives for the freedom of our country. 
Presently, the political parties convene meetings over here. 


Various rallies and seminars also take place behind the Sahid Minar of Kolkata, India. 
The tradition of holding political meetings began in 1931, when Rabindranath Tagore presided over a convocation meeting held over there. 
If you stand at the top of the minar, you’ll get an excellent view of the hub city of Kolkata. 
Situated south of Kolkata, Sunderbans is a very famous wildlife sanctuary of our country. 
It is the habitat of the Royal Bengal Tiger and owing to this fact; it is also referred to as Sunderbans tiger reserve. 
In the Kolkata Sunderbans national park, you can find the estuarine crocodile, wild boar and several varieties of birds and snakes. 
It is located on the south of Kolkata, India and stretches till Bangladesh. 
Also, Sunderbans is the largest delta of the world formed by the unification of three rivers-the Ganga, Brahmaputra and Meghna. 
It is spread over an area of 2,585 square kms, out of which the core area of 1,330 square kms is formally declared as the world heritage site and a national park. 
Apart from the Bengal tiger, it also houses other wildlife animals like monkeys, herons, spotted deer, kingfishers, wild pigs and white-bellied eagles. 
Sundarbans wildlife sanctuary in Kolkata is just an apt destination for ornithologists and bird watchers. 
Botanical gardens of Kolkata, India are situated 8 kms away from the city, on the west bank of the Ganga, covering an area of about 273 acres. 
Laid out in the year 1787, Kolkata botanical garden is one of the oldest and largest botanical gardens of India. 
It contains about 12,000 living perennial plants and millions of dried out plants gathered from world over. 
The main attraction of the botanical gardens is the giant size banyan tree that is said to have the second largest canopy in the world. 
Over here, you can find a plethora of beautiful orchids and other colourful flowers. 
The garden also has a library, where you can find a valuable collection of books on botany. 
The botanical garden of Kolkata houses trees of rarest variety. 
It’s common for people in India to associate Kolkata cuisine to fish. 
It’s the first thing that pops up in their minds. 
And they are not to blame.
It is the staple food there. 
And be assured that you will get the best fish you will ever eat in your life here. 
You will be able to eat fish in every nook and corner of the city. 
But Kolkata is not only about fish. 
There is a whole lot more you can indulge into. 
Kolkata will never disappoint food lovers. 
In Bengal, Chinese cuisine is in demand. 
North Indian and south Indian food can be found virtually in any restaurant. 
Other cuisines that Bengalis are fond of include Continental, Thai, Tibetian and Anglo-Indian. 
If you wish to savor the taste of these cuisines, you can visit some eating-houses in and around Chowringhee and Park Street. 
When it comes to the cooking specialty of Kolkata, Kathi rolls (kebabs wrapped in dough) truly deserve a special mention. 
Bengali sweet dishes are famous all over India. 
Bengal boasts off its cottage cheese based sweets like sandesh, rosogolla and chanar payesh. 
Other must try delicacies consist of Misti doi (sweetened curd) and Patali gur confectionery (date palm jaggery). 
If you happen to visit Kolkata during any one of these festivals you are in luck and if you are not then I would advise you to plan your visit to clash with one of the festivals. 


The people of Kolkata celebrate each of their festival with fun and frolic. 
Puja of Ma Durga is a major festival of Bengalis, for which they keep waiting the whole year. 
Kolkata Durga Puja festival is celebrated on a large scale with great pomp and gaiety. 
It is celebrated to worship mother Durga, the Goddess of power (Shakti). 
It celebrates the victory of ma Durga over the demon Mahishasura. 
Durga Puja of Kolkata, India usually takes place during the autumn period from September-October. 
The weather is pleasant, giving air a festivity touch. 
Though the festival of Durga puja is celebrated throughout Bengal, but it is special in Kolkata. 
Durga puja involves the performance of a long series of rituals. 
Every day starting from the day of the Mahalaya, the days of Sashthi, Saptami, Ashtami, Navami and Dashami or Bijoya Dashami has its own set of rituals. 
Durga puja is a time for socializing with friends, family and relatives. 
People dressed in their new clothing, visit pandals, eat mouthwatering food and enjoy the drumbeats. 
It is truly the best time to catch up with your old friends. 
Indians abroad send gifts to Kolkata in large number and the locals also distribute sweets and exchange gifts with the loved ones. 
Lakshmi puja festival falls in the month of October, about 5 days after Mahadashami. 
Laxmi Puja of Kolkata India is an important occasion, in which prayers are offered to Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth, peace and prosperity. 
The puja of Ma Laxmi gives an opportunity to people to invite the Goddess of luck and prosperity to their homes. 
One or two days before the celebration of the festivity of Laxmi puja, the local markets of Kolkata are beautifully decorated. 
The shops get flooded with the idols of Laxmi seated on a lotus. 
Kolkata Kali Puja festival is another important occasion that takes place two weeks after the celebration of Laxmi puja. 
Kali puja is performed in the honour of Kali, the Goddess of destruction. 
People worship Goddess Kali with the belief that she will protect them from evils. 
Also, she symbolizes strength. 
Puja of Ma Kali is conducted at midnight on the day of the new moon in the month of Kartik. 
Kali Puja of Kolkata India usually coincides with Diwali. 
It is celebrated with splendid grandeur. 
People light candles, burst crackers, dress up in good clothes and offer prayers to mother Goddess Kali. 
Saraswati puja is one big occasion in Kolkata that takes place during the period between late January and early February. 
In fact, the day when puja of Ma Saraswati is done is declared as a state holiday. 
Kolkata Saraswati puja festival is celebrated with great pomp and show. 
It is on this day that the youngest female of the family is asked to dress up in yellow clothing. 
Saraswati puja is conducted in almost every locality of Kolkata. 
People of the locality get together and assemble at the pandal to celebrate the festivity. 
Kids are really enthusiastic about the puja. 
It is during this puja that children pray to the goddess for their academic success. 
It is usually the pundit who performs the puja. 
After the puja is over, prasad is distributed to all. 
I think I have given reasons to convince you to come and visit Kolkata. 
The former capital of India will embrace you like none and other and it’s taken that after being here you will take a bit of Kolkata with you where ever you go. 
You are sure to fall in love with this place. 
For a soul-refreshing visit Kolkata is the place for you.
Kolkata is my beloved city. 
It is a big city through which the river Ganga flows. 
It is the capital of West Bengal. 
This city has a long history of culture and heritage. 
Kolkata is a very old city. 
The people of Kolkata are mainly Bengalis. 
In Kolkata many freedom fighters and social reformers like Raja Rammohan Roy, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Baghajatin and many others were born and brought up. 


The British ruled over this city for many years. 
Kolkata is known as the 'city of joy'. 
People of different caste, creed and religion live in harmony here. 
There are many exciting places to visit here. 
The National Library, Indian Museum, Alipore Zoological Garden, Marble Palace and Victoria Memorial Hall are some of them. 
People from all over the country come to visit these places. 
The British constructed the memorable Howrah Bridge which is still the main thoroughfare to reach Howrah. 
In Kolkata many festivals like Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Holi, Id and Christmas are celebrated. 
Durga Puja is the main festival of this city. 
This is celebrated for four to five consecutive days, depending on the calendar of that year. 
The main food of the people is rice and fish. 
Many other delicious dishes are made here too. 
People of Kolkata are famous for eating different types of sweets. 
Among these rasogolla and sondesh are very common. 
There are temples of goddess Kali at Kalighat and Dakshineswar. 
Churches and mosques are also found here. 
There is a lovely green golf course too. 
The location of the city appears to have been originally selected partly because of its easily defensible position and partly because of its favourable trading location. 
The low, swampy, hot, and humid riverbank otherwise has little to recommend it. 
Its maximum elevation is about 30 feet (9 metres) above sea level. 
Eastward from the river the land slopes away to marshes and swamplands. 
Similar topography on the west bank of the river has confined the metropolitan area largely to a strip 3 to 5 miles (5 to 8 km) wide on either bank of the river. 
Reclamation of the Salt Lake area on the northeastern fringe of the city, however, demonstrated that the spatial expansion of the city is feasible, and further reclamation projects have been undertaken to the east, south, and west of the central area. 
Suburbs of Kolkata include Haora (Howrah) on the west bank, Baranagar to the north, South Dum Dum to the northeast, Behala to the south, and Garden Reach in the southwest. 
The whole urban complex is held together by close socioeconomic ties. 
Kolkata has a subtropical climate with a seasonal regime of monsoons (rain-bearing winds). 
It is warm year-round, with average high temperatures ranging from about 80 °F (27 °C) in December and January to nearly 100 °F (38 °C) in April and May. 
The average annual rainfall is about 64 inches (1,625 mm). 
Most of this falls from June to September, the period of the monsoon. 
These months are very humid and sometimes sultry. 
During October and November the rainfall dwindles. 
The winter months, from about the end of November to the end of February, are pleasant and rainless; fogs and mists occasionally reduce visibility in the early morning hours at this season, as also do thick blankets of smog in the evenings. 
The atmospheric pollution has greatly increased since the early 1950s. 
Factories, motor vehicles, and thermal-generating stations, which burn coal, are primary causes of this pollution, but monsoon winds act as cleansing agents by bringing in fresh air masses and also hastening the removal of water pollution. 
The most striking aspect of the layout of Kolkata is its rectangular north-south orientation. 
With the exception of the central areas where Europeans formerly lived, the city has grown haphazardly. 
This haphazard development is most noticeable in the fringe areas around the central core formed by the city of Kolkata and the suburb of Haora. 
The bulk of the city’s administrative and commercial activity is concentrated in the Barabazar district, a small area north of the Maidan (the park containing Fort William and many of the city’s cultural and recreational facilities). 
The layout has encouraged the development of a pattern of daily commuting that has overburdened Kolkata’s transportation system, utilities, and other municipal facilities. 


Kolkata’s system of streets and roads reflects the city’s historical development. 
An express highway, Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue, stretches from Kolkata to Dum Dum, though most local streets are narrow. 
The main roads form a grid pattern primarily in the old European sector, but elsewhere road planning has a random character. 
Part of the reason for this has been the difficulty of providing enough river crossings; it is for the same reason that most streets and highways run from north to south. 
Nullahs (watercourses) and canals that require bridging also have been important factors in influencing the road pattern. 
The city has an acute housing shortage. 
Of the persons living in institutional shelters in the Kolkata metropolitan area, more than two-thirds live in the city itself. 
About three-fourths of the housing units in the city are used for dwelling purposes only. 
There are hundreds of urban settlements called bastis, where about one-third of the city’s population lives. 
A basti (also spelled busti or bustee) is officially defined as “a collection of huts standing on a plot of land of at least one-sixth of an acre.” There also are bastis built on less than one-sixth of an acre (one-fifteenth of a hectare). 
The majority of basti dwellings are tiny, unventilated, single-story rooms, often dilapidated. 
They have few sanitary facilities, and there is very little open space. 
The government has sponsored basti improvement and resettlement programs. 
n contemporary Kolkata the skyline is broken in some areas by skyscrapers and tall multistory blocks. 
The cityscape has changed rapidly. 
The Chowringhee area in central Kolkata, once a row of palatial houses, has been given up to offices, hotels, and shops. 
In northern and central Kolkata, buildings are still mainly two or three stories high. 
In southern and south-central Kolkata, multistoried apartment buildings have become more common. 
Western influence is dominant in many of Kolkata’s architectural monuments, though Indian influences also are apparent. 
The Raj Bhavan (the state governor’s residence) is an imitation of Kedleston Hall in Derbyshire, England; the High Court resembles the Cloth Hall at Ypres, Belgium; the Town Hall is in Grecian style with a Doric-Hellenic portico; St. 
Paul’s Cathedral is of Indo-Gothic-style architecture; the Writers’ Building is of Gothic-style architecture with statuary on top; the Indian Museum is in an Italian style; and the General Post Office, with its majestic dome, has Corinthian columns. 
The beautiful column of the Sahid Minar (Ochterlony Monument) is 165 feet (50 metres) high—its base is Egyptian, its column Syrian, and its cupola in the Turkish style. 
Victoria Memorial Hall represents an attempt to combine classical Western influence with Mughal architecture; the Nakhoda Mosque is modeled on the tomb of the Mughal emperor Akbar at Sikandra; the Birla Planetarium is based on the stupa (Buddhist reliquary) at Sanchi. 
The Ramakrishna Mission Institute of Culture, the most important example of postindependence construction, follows the style of ancient Hindu palace architecture in northwestern India. 
More than four-fifths of the population is Hindu. 
Muslims and Christians constitute the largest minorities, but there are some Sikhs, Jains, and Buddhists. 
The dominant language is Bengali, but Urdu, Oriya, Tamil, Punjabi, and other languages also are spoken. 
Kolkata is a cosmopolitan city: other than Indians, groups present include a variety of peoples from elsewhere in Asia (notably Bangladeshis and Chinese), Europeans, North Americans, and Australians. 
Kolkata was segregated under British rule, the Europeans living in the city centre and Indians living to the north and south. 
The pattern of segregation has continued in the modern city, although the distribution is now based on religious, linguistic, educational, and economic criteria. 


Shantytowns and low-income residential areas, however, exist side-by-side with more affluent areas. 
The density of population is extremely high, and overcrowding has reached virtually intolerable proportions in many sections of the city. 
Kolkata experienced a high rate of population growth for more than a century, and events such as the partitioning of Bengal in 1947 and warfare in Bangladesh in the early 1970s precipitated massive population influxes. 
Large refugee colonies also have sprung up in the northern and southern suburbs. 
In addition, a great number of migrants from other state mostly from neighbouring Bihar and Orissa and eastern Uttar Pradesh—have come to Kolkata in search of employment.
